Create event-driven-image-bigquery-processing-pipelines.md (#2598)
knative/docs: blog/articles/event-driven-image-bigquery-processing-pipelines.md

---
title: "Event-driven Image and BigQuery processing pipelines with Knative on
Google Cloud"

> date: 2020-06-19

Reviewer: author: by [Mete Atamel](https://twitter.com/meteatamel), developer relations at Google.

> linkTitle: "Event-driven image and BigQuery processing pipelines with Knative"

Reviewer 2: @meteatamel I think you can remove the linktitle here

> linkTitle: "Event-driven image and BigQuery processing pipelines with Knative"

Author: Ok removed

description: "Using Knative Eventing to build event-driven image and BigQuery
processing pipelines"
type: "blog"
---

In this blog post, I want to outline two event-driven processing pipelines that I
recently built with Knative Eventing. Along the way, I’ll tell you about event sources,
custom events and other components provided by Knative that greatly simplifies
development of event-driven architectures.

Both of these pipelines are on GitHub with code, configuration and detailed
instructions, as part of my [Knative Tutorial](https://github.com/meteatamel/knative-tutorial).

## Image Processing Pipeline

This is an image processing pipeline where users upload an image to a storage
bucket on Google Cloud, get the image processed with a number of different Knative

> services and the processed images are saved to an output bucket.

Reviewer: @meteatamel can you add a clarification here, please?

1. [Event sources](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/sources/) allow you to
   read external events in your cluster. [Knative-GCP
   Sources](https://github.com/google/knative-gcp#knative-gcp-sources) provide a
   number of eventing sources ready to read events from various Google Cloud
   sources.

> 2. [Broker and triggers](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
2. [Broker and triggers](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide
```

> 2. [Broker and triggers](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
2. [Broker and triggers](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide
```

>    event delivery without producers or consumers needing to know about how the 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
   event delivery without producers or consumers needing to know about how the
```

### Architecture

Here's the architecture of the image processing pipeline. It's deployed to
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) on Google Cloud:

![Image processing pipeline architecture](https://atamel.dev/img/2020/image-processing-pipeline.png)

> 1. An image is saved to an input Cloud Storage bucket.

Author: It's shorthand for "Google Cloud Storage" product..

To test the pipeline, I upload the following picture from my favorite beach
(Ipanema in Rio de Janeiro) to the bucket:

![Beach with sunset](https://atamel.dev/img/2020/beach.jpg)

After a few seconds, I see 3 files in my output bucket:

```sh
gsutil ls gs://knative-atamel-images-output

gs://knative-atamel-images-output/beach-400x400-watermark.jpeg
gs://knative-atamel-images-output/beach-400x400.png
gs://knative-atamel-images-output/beach-labels.txt
```

We can see the labels `Sky,Body of
water,Sea,Nature,Coast,Water,Sunset,Horizon,Cloud,Shore` in the text file and
the following resized and watermarked image:

![Beach with sunset](https://atamel.dev/img/2020/beach-400x400-watermark.jpeg)

## BigQuery Processing Pipeline

In this second pipeline, I built a schedule driven pipeline. In this pipeline, I query
find the daily COVID-19 cases for a couple of countries. I use a public COVID-19
dataset on BigQuery to get the data, generate some charts and send myself an
email for each country once a day with those charts.

### Architecture

Here's the architecture of the pipeline.

![BigQuery processing pipeline architecture](https://atamel.dev/img/2020/bigquery-processing-pipeline.png)

> 1. Two `CloudSchedulerSources` are setup for two countries (United Kingdom and

Author: Regarding brackets, the two specific countries I mentioned are not the main point but I still wanted to mention them. That's why I put it in brackets. 

Regarding the UK being a country not, I live in the UK, so I know what it contains. The UK is often referred as a single entity even though everyone knows that it consists of 4 nations, similar to the US being a single entity with 50 states. If we really want to get into details, technically, Cyprus is also 2 separate countries (north and south) and can even be considered 3 countries, if we consider the British sovereign bases on the island :-) But I don't think we want to get into political discussions in this blog post.

> 1. Two `CloudSchedulerSources` are setup for two countries (United Kingdom and

Author: Changed to "I setup"

   Cyprus) to call the `QueryRunner` service once a day.
2. The QueryRunner service receives the scheduler events for the UK and Cyprus,
   queries COVID-19 cases for each of them using BigQuery's public

>    COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
   COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is
```

>    COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
   COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is
```

>    COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
   COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is
```

>    COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
   COVID-19 data set, and saves the results in a separate BigQuery table. After this is
```

   `dev.knative.samples.querycompleted`.
3. `ChartCreator` service written in Python. It receives the `querycompleted`
   event, creates a chart from BigQuery data using `Matplotlib` and saves it to
   a Cloud Storage bucket.
4. `Notifier` is another Python service that receives the
   `com.google.cloud.storage.object.finalize` event from the bucket via a
   `CloudStorageSource` and sends an email notification to users using SendGrid.

### Test the pipeline

`CloudSchedulerSource` creates `CloudScheduler` Jobs under the covers:

```bash
gcloud scheduler jobs list

ID                                                  LOCATION      SCHEDULE (TZ)          TARGET_TYPE  STATE
cre-scheduler-2bcb33d8-3165-4eca-9428-feb99bc320e2  europe-west1  0 16 * * * (UTC)       Pub/Sub      ENABLED
cre-scheduler-714c0b82-c441-42f4-8f99-0e2eac9a5869  europe-west1  0 17 * * * (UTC)       Pub/Sub      ENABLED
```

And you can trigger them on demand:

```bash
gcloud scheduler jobs run cre-scheduler-2bcb33d8-3165-4eca-9428-feb99bc320e2
```

You should get an email with with a chart similar to this in a few minutes:

![Chart - United Kingdom](https://atamel.dev/img/2020/chart-unitedkingdom.png)

> ## Knative Goodness

Author: Renamed the title and moved to the beginning

In these pipelines, I relied on a few Knative components that greatly simplified
my development. More specifially:

> 1. [Eventing Sources](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/sources/) allow you to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Event sources](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/sources/) allow you to
```

   read external events in your cluster and [Knative-GCP
   Sources](https://github.com/google/knative-gcp#knative-gcp-sources) provide a
   number of eventing sources ready to read events from various Google Cloud
   sources.

> 2. [Broker and Trigger](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [Broker and triggers](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide an
```

> 2. [Broker and Trigger](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide an
>    eventing backbone where right events are delivered to right event consumers
>    without producers or consumers having to know about how the events are routed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [Broker and Trigger](https://knative.dev/docs/eventing/broker/) provide 
   event delivery without producers or consumers needing to know about how the events are 
   routed.
```

Author: I made this change manually as diffs were getting confused

> 3. **Custom Events and Event Replies**: In Knative, all events are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Custom events and event replies**: In Knative, all events are
```

>    [CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/). It's useful to have a standard format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   [CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/), so it's useful to have a standard format
```

>    for events and various SDKs to read/write them. Moreover, Knative supports

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   for events and various SDKs to read/write them. Knative supports
```

>    custom events and event replies. Any service can receive an event, do some
>    processing, create a custom event with new data and reply back to `Broker`
>    for other services to read the custom event. This is very useful in pipelines
>    where each service does a little bit of work and passes on the message forward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   custom events and event replies. Any service can receive an event, do some
   processing, create a custom event with new data, and reply back to the broker
   so that other services can read the custom event. This is useful in pipelines,
   where each service does a little bit of work and passes the message forward to the next service.
```
